Guide to migrate Zone CP from On-Prem Global CP to Konnect (#6320)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/konnect/mesh-manager/migrate-zone.md

---
title: Migrate a self-managed zone control plane to {{site.konnect_saas}}
content_type: tutorial
---

If you already have zone control planes in {{site.mesh_product_name}}, you can migrate them to {{site.konnect_short_name}} in Mesh Manager. [Mesh Manager](/konnect/mesh-manager/) allows you to create, manage, and view your {{site.mesh_product_name}} service meshes using the {{site.konnect_short_name}} platform.

Here are a few benefits of creating a mesh deployment in {{site.konnect_short_name}} instead of using a self-managed setup:

* **Kong-managed global control plane:** By creating your mesh in {{site.konnect_short_name}}, your global control plane is managed by Kong. 

> * **All entities in one place:** You can view all your information, such as entities from Kong Ingress Controller (KIC) for Kubernetes, {{site.konnect_short_name}}-managed entities, and now service mesh data, all from one central platform. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **All entities in one place:** You can view all your information, such as entities from {{site.kic_product_name}} (KIC) for Kubernetes, {{site.konnect_short_name}}-managed entities, and now service mesh data, all from one central platform. 
```

* **Managed UI wizard setup:** {{site.konnect_short_name}} simplifies the process of creating a mesh by providing a setup wizard in the UI that guides you through the configuration steps.

This guide explains how to migrate a self-managed zone control plane to {{site.konnect_saas}}. 

![mesh migration before](/assets/images/diagrams/diagram-mesh-migration-before.png)

> **Figure 1:** Diagram that explains how the {{site.mesh_product_name}} global control plane communicates with zone control planes, services, and data planes before migrating. Each service has an associated data plane proxy and those communicate with the zone control plane. The zone control plane then communicates with the {{site.mesh_product_name}} global control plane. All of these entities are self-managed in {{site.mesh_product_name}}.

![mesh migration after](/assets/images/diagrams/diagram-mesh-migration-after.png)

> > **Figure 2:** Diagram that explains how the {{site.konnect_short_name}} global control plane communicates with zone control planes, services, and data planes after migrating. Each service has an associated data plane proxy and those communicate with the zone control plane. The services, data plane proxies, and zone control planes are all self-managed in {{site.mesh_product_name}}. The zone control plane then communicates with the {{site.konnect_short_name}} global control plane, which is managed by Kong.

Reviewer: @lobkovilya If you wouldn't mind reading these over to make sure these sound accurate, that would be great!

Author: I'm not sure the phrase "... are self-managed in Kong Mesh" actually makes sense. "Self-managed" means it's managed by the customer (not by Kong), so I don't think we can say "self-managed in <some_place>". I'd rather drop the clarification and keep only "... are self-managed."

Other than that it's very accurate!

  ```bash
  kumactl config control-planes switch --name {config}
  ```

1. Apply resources fetched from the self-managed global control plane in steps 2 and 3: 
  ```bash
  kumactl apply -f {file_name}
  ```

## Connect the zone control plane to {{site.konnect_short_name}}

1. [Create a new zone in {{site.konnect_short_name}}](/konnect/mesh-manager/service-mesh/#create-a-zone-in-the-global-control-plane). The name of the new zone should match the zone from {{site.mesh_product_name}} that we're connecting to. 
  Be sure to override your existing zone control plane `values.yaml` configuration with the values provided in the {{site.konnect_short_name}} UI wizard.

1. If [KDS TLS](/mesh/latest/production/secure-deployment/certificates/#control-plane-to-control-plane-multizone) is enabled with self-signed certificates, set `kuma.controlPlane.tls.kdsZoneClient.secretName=""` so the zone control plane can use public certificates to authenticate with {{site.konnect_short_name}}:
  ```bash
  kumactl install control-plane \
  --set "kuma.controlPlane.tls.kdsZoneClient.secretName=kds-ca-certs" \
  | kubectl apply -f -
  ```

> 1. Restart zone control plane with the new values. {{site.konnect_short_name}} will automatically start looking for the zone. Once {{site.konnect_short_name}} finds the zone, it will display it.

Reviewer: @lobkovilya Could we add the command to restart the control plane here? I tried to look it up in our docs but couldn't find it.

Author: I just checked, in GUI for Kubernetes we already provide the command that restarts CP if it already exists (`helm upgrade --install`):
<img width="871" alt="image" src="https://github.com/Kong/docs.konghq.com/assets/12110261/ad395678-c1d0-4aed-909c-39ba90977da7">

For Universal, it doesn't make sense to provide the command, because there are too many ways customers are running Zone CP, I don't think it is worth trying to cover all the cases.

---

> title: Migrate a self-managed global zone control plane to {{site.konnect_saas}}

Reviewer 2: global zone control plane? Seems odd right?

Author: Right, should be
```suggestion
title: Migrate a self-managed zone control plane to {{site.konnect_saas}}
```

content_type: tutorial
---

> This guide explains how to migrate a self-managed global control plane to {{site.konnect_saas}}. This can be useful if you manage other services in {{site.konnect_saas}} that way you can view all your entities in one place. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you already have zone control planes in {{site.mesh_product_name}}, you can migrate them to {{site.konnect_short_name}} in Mesh Manager. [Mesh Manager](/konnect/mesh-manager/) allows you to create, manage, and view your {{site.mesh_product_name}} service meshes using the {{site.konnect_short_name}} platform.

Here are a few benefits of creating a mesh deployment in {{site.konnect_short_name}} instead of using a self-managed setup:

* **Kong-managed global control plane:** By creating your mesh in {{site.konnect_short_name}}, your global control plane is managed by Kong. 
* **All entities in one place:** You can view all your information, such as entities from Kong Ingress Controller (KIC) for Kubernetes, {{site.konnect_short_name}}-managed entities, and now service mesh data, all from one central platform. 
* **Managed UI wizard setup:** {{site.konnect_short_name}} simplifies the process of creating a mesh by providing a setup wizard in the UI that guides you through the configuration steps.

This guide explains how to migrate a self-managed zone control plane to {{site.konnect_saas}}. 
```

@lahabana Does this sound better?

> This guide explains how to migrate a self-managed global control plane to {{site.konnect_saas}}. This can be useful if you manage other services in {{site.konnect_saas}} that way you can view all your entities in one place. 

Reviewer 2: Can we get something a bit more selling? It should probably link back to the overview to explain what mesh manager is

## Prerequisites

* A universal or Kubernetes cluster with a running zone control plane connected to the self-managed global control plane

> * [The latest version of kumactl](/mesh/latest/production/install-kumactl/) installed and configured to communicate with the zone control plane

Reviewer 2: With the zone?

* A [{{site.mesh_product_name}} global control plane in {{site.konnect_short_name}}](/konnect/mesh-manager/service-mesh/#create-a-zone-in-the-global-control-plane)
* [yq installed](https://github.com/mikefarah/yq)

## Transfer resources from the self-managed global control plane to {{site.konnect_short_name}}

1. Make sure the self-managed global control plane is active:
  ```bash
  kumactl config control-planes list
  ```

>   This should return your self-managed global control plane. You can use port-forward of the On-Prem Global CP API port 5681 to localhost to get quick access with `kumactl`.

Reviewer: I'm not sure what the second sentence means. Is there a command you can use to make sure the on prem global cp is active on port 5681? Or does this do something else?

Author: If a user runs self-managed global cp on Kubernetes then quite likely they might be not familiar how to operate it with `kumactl` (because they're using `kubectl`). Normally user has to authenticate `kumactl` with API by following the [instruction](https://docs.konghq.com/mesh/latest/production/secure-deployment/api-server-auth). But there is a simpler way and I wanted to add this like a tip – port-forward Global CP API port to localhost.

But I just noticed that the instruction I mentioned above already contains information about the "port-forward". So I think it's safe to remove the second sentence altogether.

>   This should return your self-managed global control plane. You can use port-forward of the On-Prem Global CP API port 5681 to localhost to get quick access with `kumactl`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This should return your self-managed global control plane. If you are using Kubernetes, you can run `kubectl port-forward {resource_name} 5681:localhost` to get quick access with `kumactl`.
```

@lobkovilya I like the idea of keeping the port-forward example. Does the formatting look correct to you? I added the curly brackets because "resource name" is a placeholder. I wasn't sure if there was a port # we could add for localhost or if it would depend on the user's environment.

Author: The command looks like this:
```bash
$ kubectl port-forward deployment/{{ site.mesh_cp_name}} -n {{ site.mesh_namespace }} 5681
```

     
     for type in ${types}; do
       kumactl get ${type} --mesh ${mesh} -oyaml | yq '.items[] |= (del(.creationTime,.modificationTime)) | .items[] | split_doc' | grep ^ >> "${outdir}/${mesh}.yaml" && echo "---" >> "${outdir}/${mesh}.yaml"
     done
   done
    ```

1. If mTLS is enabled on the mesh and the backend type is `builtin` or `provided`, then copy the mesh secrets:
    * **Builtin:** Copy secrets named `{mesh_name}.ca-builtin-cert-{backend_name}` and `{mesh_name}.ca-builtin-key-{backend_name}`. For more information, see [storage of secrets](/mesh/{{page.kong_version}}/policies/mutual-tls/#storage-of-secrets).
    * **Provided:** Copy secrets specified in the mesh resource. For more information, see [usage of "provided" CA](/mesh/{{page.kong_version}}/policies/mutual-tls/#usage-of-provided-ca).

1. Switch the active `kumactl` control plane to {{site.konnect_short_name}}:
  ```bash
  kumactl config control-planes switch --name {config}
  ```

1. Apply resources fetched from the self-managed global control plane in steps 2 and 3: 
  ```bash
  kumactl apply -f {file_name}
  ```

## Connect the zone control plane to {{site.konnect_short_name}}

> 1. [Create a zone in the global control plane](/konnect/mesh-manager/service-mesh/#create-a-zone-in-the-global-control-plane).

Author: What do you mean? Why should it exist if Zone CP is not connected yet?

> 1. [Create a zone in the global control plane](/konnect/mesh-manager/service-mesh/#create-a-zone-in-the-global-control-plane).

Reviewer 2: So I think the wording is wrong. Also this zone should have the same name as the existing one.
